you clicked on a video about china and
here you are looking at a quote from
donald trump
about pakistan what does one have to do
with the other way back in 2018
feels like a long time ago now donald
trump said quote
the united states has foolishly given
pakistan more than 33
billion dollars in aid over the last 15
years
and they have given us nothing but lies
and deceit
thinking of our leaders as fools they
give safe haven to the terrorists we
hunt in afghanistan
with little help no more
well donald trump is not the most
reliable source of information for
anything including uh
us military budgetary figures so let's
just uh take a look at this report from
the
congressional research service what i've
highlighted in blue there
is the statement that grants from the
united states to pakistan for
military hardware actually eclipsed
the amount of money that pakistan was
spending buying
american hardware and this particular
report
covers the years 2001 through
2015. yeah there are a lot of numbers
here in the millions
and a lot of numbers here in the
billions if you take the time to read it
missiles helicopters transport aircraft
on and on it goes and as you can see
some of these things were paid for
by the pakistani taxpayer but a whole
lot
was paid for by the american taxpayer
just say arms deals
with pakistan were to some extent done
on a for-profit basis for the united
states
but to some extent we're done on a
charitable
basis now how would you feel about that
if you were the prime minister of india
and you were still to this day at war
with pakistan even if it is something of
a
slow-burning smoldering
war oh and now isn't this a contrast
in 2019 there was no
sale of u.s military weapons to pakistan
in fact the u.s refunded 10.8 million
dollars to pakistan
taken for the purchase of weapons so
they didn't sell them
anything at all in 2019 and i guess
some purchases were paid for in advance
that had to be
canceled with a substantial refund
handed over between 1950 and 2020
pakistan purchased weapons worth 10
billion us dollars from the u.s
under fms india's
weapons procurement of the united states
jumped from a meager
6.2 million dollars to a whopping 3.4
billion in the final year of the donald
trump administration
according to official data none of these
political events happens in a vacuum
each domino causes other dominoes
to fall if the united states is now
in a military alliance with india that
excludes
pakistan they cannot be arming both
india and pakistan if pakistan
is now cut off from its former allies
in the united states and in afghanistan
the government of afghanistan only
exists
in as much as it continues to be
supplied by supported by and financed by
the american taxpayer well then the
geopolitics of pakistan
change very fundamentally pakistan will
have to get
closer to china than ever before as it
regards itself as locked in a
70-year-long death match with its
gigantic neighbor
india oh isn't isn't this an interesting
coincidence that at
right around the same time pakistan has
suddenly gotten very interested
in a central asian connection
to china yeah this is a an alternative
gateway
that would circumnavigate afghanistan
you see how that works within 24 hours
of the announcement of the quadrilateral
strategy this grand strategy of joe
biden's
that will change the fate of asia and to
a large extent
change the fate of the whole world i
would say that most people's reaction
was more of perplexity than
shock astonishment horror it was
perplexing
and it was perplexing in part because
joe biden's new direction
is so different from what was expected
of him by both the left and the right
the american left wing completely
assumed
that joe biden would return to the
pro-china policies of bill clinton
and the right wing basically shared that
assumption but went
much much further theorizing that joe
biden was actually a pro-china
puppet that somehow the chinese
government wanted to
prevent donald trump from being
reelected because they were so certain
that joe biden would be
softer kinder better more encouraging
towards chinese
economic and political interests well
how wrong
they were
[Music]
so
the capitol building slurs against the
asians refusal
masks and vaccines all happen under the
facade of democracy
[Music]
so
china will continue to support european
integration
and support a united and strong eu
playing
a bigger role in international affairs
in our view china and europe are two
important players in this multipolar
world
the relationship is equal it is open
it is not targeting any third party or
controlled
by anyone else so there is no such a
thing
that china wants to divide
the united states and europe
or china welcomes
greater strategic autonomy of the eu
greater commitment to multilateralism
and coordination among major countries
some things in politics are simply
bizarre
in and of themselves and some things
seem
much more bizarre than they are just
because they're contrary
to what our prior expectations were
china has certainly been adding to the
world's state of perplexity
in these few days in part because their
propaganda
has given us such a strange mix
of messages beginning with beginning
with this
bizarre conspiracy theory that joe
biden's agenda has nothing to do with
democracy
that really this is all about the
control
of the rare earth metals market that
that is a conspiracy theory worthy of q
anon
that was put on the front pages of
china's government-controlled newspapers
both in chinese and english within a few
hours of the story breaking
but with a sober second thought
what we find today come from chinese
propaganda
is instead a more nuanced message about
the nature of democracy
and china's place in the world as they
struggle to distance themselves
from joe biden's rhetoric which portrays
them as the leaders
of an anti-democratic axis of evil
for lack of a better term hilariously or
tragicomically the current chinese
government
propaganda line is that there's nothing
wrong
with the united states having this
quadrilateral
military alliance as long as it's not
anti-chinese
even though from joe biden's own
announcement
and the statements made on joe biden's
behalf
at the white house by his representative
it has been
completely explicit that the purpose
of the quadrilateral alliance is
anti-chinese but the official diplomatic
and propaganda chinese position is hey
if
india australia the united states japan
if they all want to work together
for their betterment that's great
because that doesn't need to be
directed against any third
party and then they make a parallel
propaganda claim that china
can have its special relationship with
europe
a set of at least two treaties that are
in the final stages
of being signed right now that china can
have this special alliance with europe
if you like without that being in
any way negatively directed
at a third party they explicitly said
there
they've said several times in the last
week or two
this does not have to divide the eu
against the united states china and
europe can just work together
for their mutual benefit also
it's a perplexing situation made even
more
perplexing by the propaganda from the
chinese side
let me tell you something if you look at
a map
in between india and china
pakistan and central asia
they really matter and as i mentioned in
my earlier video
sadly we have a whole generation of
political leaders we have a whole
generation of political followers we
have a whole generation of
political journalists who know
absolutely
nothing about central asia however
ignorant americans are of china you
might as well go ahead
and double it when it comes to central
asia
how ignorant are we of india our new
number one ally
in the next few weeks we'll see stay
tuned guys within just a few days
face-to-face meeting between chinese and
american leaders in
anchorage alaska of all god forsaken
[Music]
places
maybe we can we can practice
yes